---
title: "A survey of game-theoretic approaches in wireless sensor networks"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2008-08-07-compnw
excerpt: 'This paper surveys the use of game-theoretic constructs in the design of wireless sensor networks.'
date: 2008-08-07
venue: 'Computer Networks (Authors: Renita Murimi, Sirin Tekinay)'
paperurl: 'http://renitamurimi.github.io/files/compnw2008.pdf'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2024). &quot;Paper Title Number 3.&quot; <i>GitHub Journal of Bugs</i>. 1(3).'
---

Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) comprising of tiny, power-constrained nodes are gaining popularity due to their potential for use in a wide variety of environments like monitoring of environmental attributes, intrusion detection, and various military and civilian applications. While the sensing objectives of these environments are unique and application-dependent, a common performance criteria for wireless sensor networks is prolonging network lifetime while satisfying coverage and connectivity in the deployment region. Security is another important performance parameter in wireless sensor networks, where adverse and remote environments pose various kinds of threats to reliable network operation. In this paper, we look at the problems of security and energy efficiency and different formulations of these problems based on the approach of game theory. The potential applicability of WSNs to intruder detection environments also lends itself to game-theoretic formulation of these environments, where pursuit-evasion games provide a relevant framework to model detection, tracking and surveillance applications. The suitability of using game theory to study security and energy efficiency problems and pursuit-evasion scenarios using WSNs stems from the nature of strategic interactions between nodes. Approaches from game theory can be used to optimize node-level as well as network-wide performance by exploiting the distributed decision-making capabilities of WSNs. The use of game theory has proliferated, with a wide range of applications in wireless sensor networking. In the wake of this proliferation, we survey the use of game-theoretic approaches to formulate problems related to security and energy efficiency in wireless sensor networks.

[Available here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1389128608002260)