---
title: "Redundancy Estimation and Adaptive Density Control in Wireless Sensor Networks"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2010-02-01-aswn
excerpt: 'In a random deployments of sensor nodes, how can we estimate the redundancy of the network without location information? This paper uses an information-theoretic approach to estimating this redundancy, and also studies the relationship between redundancy and network lifetime in WSNs.'
date: 2010-02-01
venue: 'Adhoc and Sensor Wireless Networks (Authors: Renita Machado, Haibo He, Guiling Wang, Sirin Tekinay)'
paperurl: 'http://renitamurimi.github.io/files/aswn2010.pdf'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2024). &quot;Paper Title Number 3.&quot; <i>GitHub Journal of Bugs</i>. 1(3).'
---

While dense random deployment satisfies coverage and sensing requirements, constructing dense networks of sensor nodes poses the problems of obtaining node location information. We provide an analytical framework for estimating the redundancy in a single-hop WSN of random deployment of nodes without the need of location information of nodes. We use an information theoretic approach to estimate the redundancy and provide the Cramer-Rao bound on the error in the estimation. We illustrate this redundancy estimation approach and calculate the bounds on the error in the estimation for a WSN with 1-redundancy. We also analytically show the inter-dependence between redundancy and network lifetime for random deployment. We further study the energy model of a WSN as interdependence between the environmental variation and its impact on the energy consumption at individual nodes. Defining network energy as the sum of residual battery energy at nodes, we provide an analytical framework for the dependence of node energy and sensitivity of network energy as a function of environmental variation and reliability parameters. Using a neural network based approach, we perform adaptive density control and show how reliability requirements and environment variation influences the rate of change of network energy.

[Available here](https://openurl.ebsco.com/EPDB%3Agcd%3A16%3A25472464/detailv2?sid=ebsco%3Aplink%3Ascholar&id=ebsco%3Agcd%3A51641131&crl=c&link_origin=scholar.google.com)
