---
title: "Equifinality in Blockchain Resilience: The Role of Organizational, Environmental, and Cybersecurity Factors"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2023-06-01-dsi
excerpt: 'Blockchains are not inherently resilient. This paper takes a look at organizational, enviromental, and cybersecurity factors that influence the level of resilience in blockchain, and advocates for the adoption of equifinality, or multiple paths, to resilience.'
date: 2023-06-01
venue: 'Proceedings of the 2023 European DSI Conference'
paperurl: 'http://renitamurimi.github.io/files/dsi2023.pdf'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2024). &quot;Paper Title Number 3.&quot; <i>GitHub Journal of Bugs</i>. 1(3).'
---

A common misconception of blockchain technologies is that they are inherently resilient. 
However, recent failures of blockchain-supported applications have demonstrated that other 
factors play a role despite the strengths of the underlying technology. Existing research has 
analyzed blockchain resilience within sectors and has not been generalizable across industries. 
Additionally, much of this research examines the independent effects of individual and 
organizational factors and their isolated contributions to blockchain resilience. In this paper, 
we suggest that blockchain resilience is a combined function of organizational capabilities, the 
business environment, and cybersecurity issues. This approach emphasizes the concept of 
equifinality, which assumes that a system can reach the same final state from various initial 
conditions and along a variety of paths. The contributions of this paper are threefold. First, 
unlike previous sector-based research, we approach blockchain resilience with a broader lens. 
Our sector-agnostic examination of blockchain resilience will provide applicability across 
industries. Second, our paper moves beyond exploring factors in isolation to theorizing about 
the interdependencies of organizational capabilities and environmental and cybersecurity 
factors, including how they may complement or substitute with one another in contributing to 
blockchain resilience. Third, we will examine the applicability of equifinality within the 
blockchain context.